

Model as described in:  
**In vivo dynamics of the pentose phosphate pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae**   
Vaseghi S, Baumeister A, Rizzi M, Reuss M. _Metab Eng._ 1999 Apr;1(2):128-40.
PMID: [10935926](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10935926) , doi:
[10.1006/mben.1998.0110](http://dx.doi.org/10.1006/mben.1998.0110) ;  
Abstract:  
The in vivo dynamics of the pentose phosphate pathway has been studied with
transient experiments in continuous culture of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Rapid
sampling was performed with a special sampling device after disturbing the
steady state with a pulse of glucose. The time span of observation was 120 s
after the pulse. During this short time period the dynamic effect of protein
biosynthesis can be neglected. The metabolites of interest (glucose
6-phosphate, NADP, NADPH, 6-phosphogluconate, and MgATP2-) we determined with
enzymatic assays and HPLC. The experimental observations were then used for
the identification of kinetic rate equations and parameters under in vivo
conditions. In accordance with results from in vitro studies the in vivo
diagnosis supports an ordered Bi-Bi mechanism with noncompetitive inhibition
by MgATP2- for the enzyme glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. In the case of
6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase an ordered Bi-Ter mechanism with a
competitive inhibition by MgATP2- has been found. Because the MgATP2-
concentration decreases abruptly after the pulse of glucose the inhibitory
effect vanishes and the flux through the pentose phosphate pathway increases.
This regulation phenomenon guarantees the balance of fluxes through glycolysis
and pentose phosphate pathway during the dynamic time period.

Typographical errors found and corrected from the original manuscript:

  * rMax given for 6GPDH and 6PGDH are reversed (by solving their defining equations)
  * Eq (52) should read C_NADPH(t) = 0.16 + ... (from Fig. 2)

While the model is identical to the one described in the article, it cannot
reproduce all time courses displayed in the article. The time courses for S7P
and X5P differ from fig 5 and some of the reaction rates show slightly
different dynamics than in fig 7.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not. .  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

